Community bonding and Project kickstart : Week 1
================================================

.. post:: May 29 2023
     :author: Vara Lakshmi Bayanagari
     :tags: google
     :category: gsoc

What I did this week
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Community Bonding period ended last week and my first blog is based on the work carried 
out in the last week. My meeting with GSOC mentors at the start of the week helped me chalk
out an agenda for the week. As the first step, I familiarized myself with Tensorflow 
operations, functions and distribution strategies. My previous experience with PyTorch as 
well as `website tutorials <https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/images/cnn>`_ on basic Deep
Learning models helped me quickly learn Tensorflow. As the next step, I read VQ-VAE paper & 
understood the tensorflow open source implementation. VQ-VAE addresses 'posterior collapse' 
seen in traditional VAEs and overcomes it by discretizing latent space. This in turn also 
improved the generative capability by producing less blurrier images than before. 
Familiarizing about VQ-VAE early on helps in understading the latents used in Diffusion models
in later steps. I also explored a potential dataset - `IXI (T1 images) <https://brain-development.org/ixi-dataset/>`_ 
- and performed some exploratory data analysis, such as age & sex distribution. The images contain 
entire skull information, it may require brain extraction & registration. It maybe more useful 
to use existing preprocessed datasets & align them to a template. For next week, I'll be 
conducting further literature survey on Diffusion models.